In this lecture, you'll see how to configure a switch to support wireless networks with wireless LAN
controller with Damul.
I'm going to use packet tracer for this demo so you can see that I've got it up in here.
I've got my switch here in the middle.
That's what I'm going to be configuring here.
And it's connected to a wireless LAN controller.
A couple of access points in my admin laptop.
And later on, I'm going to configure a corporate and guest W lines.
So because I've got the two different W lines there, I'm going to need to have two different Villines
to support both of them.
So what I'm going to configure here is I'm going to create my corporate villain and I'm going to create
my guest Vorlon.
I'm also going to create a management version as well for the wireless traffic.
So the different types of traffic that is going to be on top management view on when my admin laptop
is connecting M to the wireless LAN controller to configure it, but it's going to be on the management
VLAN and management IP subnet.
Also, when the wireless LAN controller is communicating with the EPWs, that is going to be on the
management Vorlon as well.
So I'm going to have that management velum with its associated IP subnet and that's going to be used
both for management of BWL XI and also for WSC Traffic to the apps.
And back again, you could split in two different villans.
I'm going to just use one Vorlon for it here.
So I'm going to have three different versions.
The management, Villon, the corporate Vorlon and the guest of you on.
I'm also going to need to configure my switch parts as well.
The WSC connection to the switch that needs to be a trunk part to support all those different villains
for the app connections going to the switch.
Those are going to be configured as oxes parts in the management Vorlon.
OK, so let's get this all configured.
So I will click on my multi-layer switch while I'm coming in here.
By the way, in Pocket's race or a trunk part to the wireless LAN controller is not separate.
So do not follow along with me as I do these lob demos.
OK, use the supplied lob exercise at the end of a section which does have a trunk port going bolshy.
But I've got a workaround in there that's going to make everything work because you don't follow along
with me with you get the end of the section user supply doob exercise and then everything will work
just fine.
OK, so I'm on the switch here.
I'll go to the command line, I'm going to the enable prompt and then I'm going to go to global configuration.
So first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to create those Vallens.
So first we go on Algis and Management V1 with furbished design of what Vilan numbers you're going to
use and what the associate IP subnets are going to be in a real world environment.
You would work with the network designer to decide which villines in which IP subnet.
So let's see if I've done that already.
We've decided that the management valon is going to be violent and zalk view on ten and I'm going to
give it the name of management.
And then I'm going to want to have an SUV, I switched virtual interface in view on 10 as well, so
I'll create the obviously interface view on 10 here on my multi-layer switch.
And I'm going to give the IP address one thing to DOT one six eight, and this is going to be 10, which
matches up with view on 10.
And I will give us IP address DOT one, the subnet mask two five five five five five five.
So this is on my multi-layer switch and my multi-layer switch is going to be the default gateway for
all of these different Villines and IP subnet.
It's going to be able to vote the traffic between them.
So that's why I'm creating the interface VLAN 10.
OK, so I've got the view on created and I've given it an IP address on The View, on interface, on
my apps and also the management IP address for my wireless line controller are going to be in this VLAN
and in this IP subnet with my apps.
When we get plugged in and they come online, I'm going to want them to communicate, to connect to
the wireless line controller and download the configuration from there.
So I'm going to be plugging the APIs in.
I want them to get connectivity to the wireless LAN controller, so we're going to need to get an IP
address.
So I need to configure the scope for what you could use an external DHP server.
This I'm going to do it here on the switch, so I'll go back down to global configuration and my subnet
is one thing to do it.
One six, eight, 10, the old swash 24.
I'm only using I'm already using IP address dot one, so I don't want to go and give out a host.
So let's say that I will allocate addresses one thing through to one six, eight, 10 one or one two
two, five, four with my DHP scope.
So I need to exclude three addresses.
One thing two to one, six eight goaltend one to one thing to dot one six eight or ten point one hundred
so that it starts giving out starting with address one or one to the command.
To do that I will see IP, the HGP excluded address and I want to exclude one thing two one six eight
door ten one two one nine two one six eight ten one hundred.
So start with the next address, which is one nine two two one six eight ten one two one.
But I need to create my scope so I see IP the sheep pool and give it a name.
I'll call it management, which ties up with the villain name.
And then the network I'm going to be assigning addresses from is one name to one six eight Tand or subnet
mask five five five five two five five or the default router.
So the default gateway for this network is here on the switch.
It's one thing to dot one six, eight, 10, dot one.
And the other thing that I want to do is tell the access points where the wireless line controller is.
So for I'll see option for three IP and my wireless LAN controller has got IP address.
One thing to you, that one she thought ten, eleven.
I've already statically assigned to the IP address to the wireless LAN controller.
Now in this example, because of the wireless LAN controller and the apps are in the same Vorlon and
the same IP subnet, I didn't actually need to do that because the EPWs would find a wireless LAN controller
from a broadcast anyway.
But if the apps and the wireless LAN controller are on a different subnet, well, routers don't forward
broadcast, so that would not work.
So in that case, you would definitely want to add the option for free to your DHP scope.
OK, so that is my management view on DHP scope all gone.
Next up, I need to create the Villines for my wireless networks as well.
So it is going to be one for corporate and one for gas.
So let's do corporate first.
And again, I've spoken to the network designer and they've told me use valon twenty two, Salkey Valon
twenty two.
I will see name corporate.
And then again, this multi-layer switch is going to be the default gateway for the IP subnet, so I
need to create the interface for that.
So I will say I just to show you, this is Barkett global config again.
I'll say interface.
It's Valon 22 and I'll give it IP address.
One thing to do it one six eight more services in subnet one and two 168 dot twenty two again to tie
up with the view on number on dot one for the default gateway subnet mask five five five two five five
dot.
Oh.
OK, so that is my corporate view on configured now the wireless clients that are connecting into the
corporate DoubleLine, they're going to need to get an IP address as well.
So I also need a DHP scope for them.
But rather than creating it here on switch, it's actually possible to configure a DHP scope in the
wireless LAN controller.
So for my wireless clients, I'm going to create the DHP Scoop's there in the wireless LAN controller.
You'll see how you do that later on when I do that demo.
OK, so I've got my Villon created for corporate.
I need to do it for Ghast as well.
So I'll see Valon and we're using Vorlon 23 here.
The name is gashed and then because I switch here it is the default gateway again.
I need to see Interface Valon twenty three and give it the IP address one nine two one six eight twenty
three point one with a swash twenty four subnet mask.
I don't need to do a no shut on these interfaces because of our virtual interfaces.
They are not shut down way by default.
OK, so I've got my villans configured.
Let's just check that.
That looks OK.
So I will do a show VLAN and in here I can see a couple of the ones that were already created in my
lab environment here, which was for the radius server and also for my admin laptop.
So they were done already.
I can see the villains I've created.
There's Valentin Management and then view on 22 corporate and view on 23 guest.
So that looks good.
And I'll do a show IP interface brief.
On the bottom and there I can see 10 and view on 22 and view on twenty three.
I can see the state issues up down here about, OK, it's just because none of my switch ports have
been allocated to that view.
And yet when I've done that, then Vivienne's will come completely up.
OK, so that is my Villines old year and also my DHP school done as well.
Now what I need to do is configure the switchboard's, so I will have a look back at the diagram again.
So I need to configure the switchboard here connected to the wireless line controller as a part.
And I also need to configure V Switchboard's here connected to my EPWs as oxes parts in the management
VLAN to watch through the wireless line controller first through back on the switch again.
I'm going to go back to global configuration again, and it is interface gigabit Ethernet one, swash
or swash five, which is connected to my wireless LAN controller.
So let me just put in a description to see that Celsi description W, l, c and then I need to configure
this as a trunk for the model which I'm working on here.
Does support both dot one Q and Izell trunking.
So I need to specify.
But it is switch part tronc encapsulation is dot one.
Q that I'm using here, the switch part mode is trunk and then best practice.
I want to limit the V lines on this part to the ones that are actually going to be used.
So I will say switch parts tronc allowed valon and I'm going to allow my management Valon 10 and then
my vans for my wireless networks, which was 22 and 23.
And then the connection to the wireless LAN controller is not doubling back into of our switches again.
So I know that I'm never going to have a spiting three loop going through this part.
So I can also see spanning three part fastest to disable spidering to be on the part.
OK, done.
So that is my switchboard connected to my wireless line controller.
Don, I also need to configure the switchboard's connected to the EPT, so I will see I'm going to do
the same time.
So I will see interface range and they are connected to gigabit Ethernet one or three and one or four.
So I'll configure and move that same time.
I'll put a description in description.
Wireless AP and then I will see switch part mode is access.
And then switch part.
But can typewrite search for access, Vallon was violent when the management valon and again, I can
disable responding to you on here, I'll spanning three part fast, OK?
And that is it done.
What should be happening now is the access points are going to get your IP address from the DHP server
running here on my switch will then discover where their wireless line controller is and we should register
it.
So let's just check that.
That is working.
So I'll go back to my main pocket, a window here.
I'll go to the admin laptop, which has got connectivity to the wireless LAN controller.
I got my desktop and then web browser.
And I need to use https to get to the admin guey on my wireless line controller and it is got IP address
one thing to you to 168, dot 10, dot 11.
So I'll click on Google and then that brings me to the login page for the wireless line controller.
I'll click on login, enter in my username and password.
And that will open up the dashboard on the wireless LAN controller and in here in the Access Point summary
section, I can see that I have got two access points which are registered.
OK, so that is all good.
I could also go to the access points in here on a real world wireless line controller to get more information,
including your IP address.
But this is all good and pocket tracer.
I can see that the apps are registered.
So now I'm ready to move on with the rest of the configuration, actually creating my W lines on the
wireless line controller and I'll do that in the next lecture.